>> Woodruff: A GUNMAN
IDENTIFIED, BUT WHAT WERE HIS
MOTIVES?
THE INVESTIGATION CONTINUES INTO
SHOOTINGS THAT LEFT FOUR MARINES
DEAD.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD: THE HISTORIC PACT
WITH IRAN, SECRETARY OF STATE
KERRY SAYS THERE'S ONLY ON
ALTERNATIVE TO IT:
>> IF THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED
STATES TURNS THIS DOWN, THERE
WILL BE CONFLICT.
>> Woodruff: IT'S FRIDAY.
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ANALYZE THE WEEK'S NEWS.
PLUS, BUILDING SMARTER, MORE
EFFICIENT AIRCRAFT-- SCIENTISTS
TAKE CUES FROM NATURE'S BEST
TINY FLYERS.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE QUESTION TODAY
IN CHATTANOOGA, TENNESSEE WAS:
WHAT LED TO THE DEADLY SHOOTINGS
YESTERDAY AT A MILITARY
RECRUITING CENTER AND NAVY
TRAINING SITE?
BUT AS HARI SREENIVASAN REPORTS,
SO FAR, THERE ARE NO ANSWERS.
>> Sreenivasan: INVESTIGATORS
SPENT THE DAY PORING OVER THE
CRIME SCENE AND CHASING SOME 70
LEADS.
F.B.I. SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE,
ED REINHOLD:
>> F.B.I. AGENTS ARE PARTNERING
WITH STATE AND LOCALS TO RUN
DOWN EVERY LEAD THAT WE HAVE
RECEIVED.
AS OUR TEAM CONTINUES TO DEVELOP
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, YOU MAY
SEE OR HEAR ABOUT F.B.I.
ACTIVITY IN OTHER AREAS OF THE
STATE AND NATION.
>> Sreenivasan: THE FOUR U.S.
MARINES KILLED IN THE ATTACKS
WERE IDENTIFIED TODAY AS:
GUNNERY SERGEANT THOMAS SULLIVAN
OF MASSACHUSETTS, A TWO-TIME
PURPLE HEART RECIPIENT.
LANCE CORPORAL SKIP WELLS OF
GEORGIA.
STAFF SERGEANT DAVID WYATT OF
NORTH CAROLINA.
AND SERGEANT CARSON HOLMQUIST OF
WISCONSIN.
THREE OTHER PEOPLE WERE WOUNDED.
THE KUWAIT-BORN SHOOTER,
NATURALIZED AMERICAN CITIZEN
MUHAMMAD YOUSSEF ABDULAZEEZ, WAS
SHOT AND KILLED BY POLICE.
THE 24-YEAR-OLD LIVED IN NEARBY
HIXSON, TENNESSEE, AND BY ALL
ACCOUNTS, WAS NOT ON FEDERAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT'S RADAR.
AND, THOSE WHO KNEW HIM WERE
STUNNED.
LUKE RUSSELL IS A FORMER HIGH
SCHOOL CLASSMATE.
>> IT'S CRAZY TO HEAR ABOUT NOT
ONLY IN YOUR HOMETOWN, YOU NEVER
HEAR ABOUT IT IN YOUR HOMETOWN,
BUT TO HEAR SOMEONE YOU WENT TO
SCHOOL WITH?!
EVERYONE IS SHOCKED.
WE ARE JUST BLOWN AWAY TO BE
HONEST.
REALLY, I JUST CAN'T BELIEVE IT,
REALLY.
>> Sreenivasan: AUTHORITIES
TODAY SEARCHED THE GUNMAN'S
COMPUTER FOR CLUES.
THEY ALSO LOOKED INTO HIS
FOREIGN TRAVEL, BUT SAID SO FAR,
THERE'S NO LINK TO THE ISLAMIC
STATE OR OTHER TERROR GROUPS.
>> THAT IS A POSSIBILITY THAT WE
WILL EXPLORE JUST LIKE ANY OTHER
POSSIBILITY.
AT THIS TIME WE HAVE NO
INDICATION THAT HE WAS INSPIRED
BY OR DIRECTED BY ANYONE OTHER
THAN HIMSELF.
>> Sreenivasan: IN THE MEANTIME,
THE ARMY'S CHIEF OF STAFF,
GENERAL RAY ODIERNO, ORDERED A
REVIEW OF SECURITY AT ALL
MILITARY RECRUITING AND RESERVE
CENTERS.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL RETURN TO THE
CHATTANOOGA SHOOTINGS AND THE
ISSUE OF DOMESTIC TERROR AFTER
THE NEWS SUMMARY.
A TEXAS GRAND JURY WILL TAKE UP
THE CASE OF A BLACK WOMAN WHO
DIED IN JAIL THIS WEEK.
POLICE SAY SANDRA BLAND HANGED
HERSELF MONDAY, IN HEMPSTEAD,
ABOUT 60 MILES FROM HOUSTON.
SHE'D BEEN JAILED FOR A TRAFFIC
VIOLATION.
BLAND HAD ACKNOWLEDGED SHE
SUFFERED FROM DEPRESSION, BUT
FAMILY AND FRIENDS SAY THEY
DOUBT SHE WOULD HAVE COMMITTED
SUICIDE.
ISLAMIC STATE BOMBERS HAVE
STRUCK AGAIN IN IRAQ IN ONE OF
THE WORST ATTACKS YET.
THEY CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY
TODAY FOR A CAR BOMB THAT KILLED
MORE THAN 100 PEOPLE NEAR
BAGHDAD.
THE FORCE OF THE BLAST BROUGHT
DOWN BUILDINGS IN A BUSY
MARKETPLACE AS MUSLIMS MARKED
THE END OF THE HOLY MONTH OF
RAMADAN.
THE LATEST GREEK BAILOUT MOVED
FORWARD ON TWO FRONTS.
THE EUROPEAN UNION CONFIRMED
TODAY IT WILL SUPPLY $7.7
BILLION BY MONDAY, SO ATHENS CAN
MAKE A CRUCIAL DEBT REPAYMENT.
ALSO, LAWMAKERS IN GERMANY-- THE
E.U.'S BIGGEST PLAYER-- APPROVED
STARTING NEGOTIATIONS ON A
FORMAL BAILOUT PACKAGE, AFTER A
PLEA BY THE CHANCELLOR.
PLEA BY THE CHANCELLOR. >> (
translated): I KNOW THAT
>> (translated): I KNOW
THAT MANY HAVE DOUBTS AND
WORRIES
MANY HAVE DOUBTS AND WORRIES
WHETHER THIS WAY WILL BE
SUCCESSFUL, WHETHER GREECE HAS
THE STRENGTH TO PERMANENTLY GO
DOWN THIS ROAD, AND NOBODY CAN
WIPE ASIDE THESE WORRIES.
BUT I AM FIRMLY CONVINCED OF ONE
THING: WE WOULD BE GROSSLY
NEGLIGENT, EVEN IRRESPONSIBLE,
IF WE DID NOT AT LEAST TRY THIS
ROAD.
>> Woodruff: THE BROAD OUTLINES
OF GREECE'S BAILOUT PROGRAM WERE
AGREED TO MONDAY BY THE EURO-
ZONE'S 19 LEADERS.
IN UKRAINE, HUNDREDS CAME OUT TO
MARK ONE YEAR SINCE A MALAYSIA
AIRLINES PASSENGER PLANE WAS
SHOT DOWN, LEAVING 298 PEOPLE
DEAD.
FRIENDS AND FAMILY MEMBERS OF
THE VICTIMS-- AND LOCAL
RESIDENTS-- GATHERED NEAR THE
MEMORIAL SITE IN REBEL-HELD
EASTERN UKRAINE.
THEY LAID FLOWERS AND RELEASED
BALLOONS AT A STONE MARKER.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, THE U.S.
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT FORMALLY
ANNOUNCED A PARTIAL SETTLEMENT
INVOLVING SHERIFF JOE ARPAIO OF
MARICOPA COUNTY, ARIZONA.
ARPAIO IS KNOWN FOR HIS
OUTSPOKEN STANCE AGAINST ILLEGAL
IMMIGRATION.
BUT FEDERAL OFFICIALS ACCUSED
HIM OF DISCRIMINATING AGAINST
LATINO INMATES AND RETALIATING
AGAINST CRITICS.
UNDER THE SETTLEMENT, MARICOPA
COUNTY AGREES TO FEDERAL
OVERSIGHT AND NEW POLICIES.
FORMER NEW YORK CONGRESSMAN
MICHAEL GRIMM WILL SERVE EIGHT
MONTHS IN PRISON FOR TAX
EVASION.
THE STATEN ISLAND REPUBLICAN WAS
SENTENCED TODAY, AFTER PLEADING
GUILTY LAST YEAR TO FILING FALSE
TAX RETURNS.
HE WAS ACCUSED OF UNDER-
REPORTING MORE THAN $1 MILLION
IN WAGES AT HIS RESTAURANT.
GRIMM RESIGNED FROM THE U.S.
HOUSE IN JANUARY.
AND ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE
DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 34 POINTS TO CLOSE BELOW
18,090.
BUT THE NASDAQ ROSE 47, AS
GOOGLE HAS ITS BIGGEST GAIN IN
SEVEN YEARS.
AND THE S&P 500 ADDED TWO.
FOR THE WEEK, THE NASDAQ ROSE
4%, THDOW E AND THE S&P GAINED
ABOUT 2%.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
DISCERNING MOTIVE IN THE AACKSTT
ON MILITARY SITES IN TENNESSEE,
SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY ON
SELLING THE IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL,
PLANNED PARENTHOOD PRACTICES
SPARK POLITICAL CONTROVERSY,
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ANALYZE THE WEEK'S NEWS,
DESIGNING DRONES INSPIRED BY
NATURE'S BEST FLYERS AND RUNNING
AND LEAPING THROUGH A CONCRETE
JUNGLE.
NEXT WE TAKE A DEEPER LOOK AT
WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT THE ATTACK IN
CHATTANOOGA AND THE CURRENT
THREATS AGAINST AMERICANS.
HARI SREENIVASAN PICKS UP THE
STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: INVESTIGATORS
ARE STILL COMBING THROUGH CLUES
TO FIND OUT WHY MUHAMMAD YOUSSEF
ABDULAZEEZ WENT ON A SHOOTING
RAMPAGE YESTERDAY IN
CHATTANOOGA.
OFFICIALS DESCRIBE THE CASE THAT
TARGETED MEMBERS OF THE U.S.
MILITARY AND TOOK THE LIVES OF
FOUR MARINES AS A TERROR
INVESTIGATION.
TO DISCUSS THIS WE ARE JOINED
NOW BY MICHAEL LEITER, FORMER
DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL
COUTERTERRORISM CENTER.
ON THE ONE HAND, WE HAVE FEDERAL
AUTHORITIES SAYING WE DO NOT
HAVE A DIRECT LINK YET TO
I.S.I.S.
ON THE OTHER HAND, THIS IS
EXACTLY THE TYPE OF ATTACK THAT
I.S.I.S. AND AL QUAIDA ARE
TRYING TO INSPIRE AROUND THE
WORLD.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT, AND I
THINK FEDERAL OFFICIALS ARE
BEING APPROPRIATELY CAUTIOUS.
IT IS ONLY 24 HOURS AFTER THE
EVENT AND MUCH THAT WILL BE
UNCOVERED IS NOT YET OPEN OR
PUBLIC.
ALL THAT BEING SAID, IT'S QUITE
CLEAR, I THINK BY ALL
INDICATIONS, THAT THERE WAS SOME
INSPIRATION FROM AL QUAIDA OR
I.S.I.S. IDEOLOGY.
EXACTLY WHAT THE LINKS ARE BACK
TO THOSE ORGANIZATIONS, THAT'S
WHAT WE STILL HAVE TO FIGURE
OUT.
>> Sreenivasan: AND I.S.I.S.
HAS BEEN ASKING MEMBERS TO
TARGET THE U.S. MILITARY.
>> THAT'S RIGHT, AND I.S.I.S.
HAS BEEN SUCCESSFUL AT USING
SOCIAL MEDIA AND CALLING FOR
MUSLIMS GLOBALLY TO ATTACK AT
HOME, NOT TRAVELING TO
AFGHANISTAN, IRAQ OR SYRIA, AND
TARGETING EITHER LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICIALS OR MEMBERS OF THE
MILITARY.
SO IN THAT SENSE, CERTAINLY THE
INITIAL APPEARANCE OF THIS
ATTACK VERY MUCH FALLS IN LINE
WITH WHAT I.S.I.S. HAS BEEN
ENCOURAGING.
>> YOU MENTIONED SOCIAL MEDIA.
HOW COOPERATIVE HAVE SOCIAL
MEDIA COMPANIES BEEN IN
BALANCING THE PRIVACY RIGHTS OF
USERS VERSUS AIDING AUTHORITIES
IN AN INVESTIGATION LIKE THIS?
>> IT'S A VERY THORNY PROBLEM
ESPECIALLY AFTER DISCLOSURES BY
EDWARD SNOWDEN, THERE'S GREAT
DISCOMFORT BETWEEN THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY AND
SOCIAL MEDIA COMPANIES.
I THINK SOCIAL MEDIA COMPANIES
ARE DOING WHAT THEY CAN, BUT
MANY IN U.S. GOVERNMENT BELIEVE
THEY CAN DO MORE, AND THAT WOULD
BE DISCLOSING INFORMATION TO
FEDERAL OFFICIALS, ONCE THEY SAY
IT IS CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WERE
TERRORIST ACTIVITY.
THE FACT IS SOCIAL MEDIA AND
OTHER MEANS OVERSECURE
COMMUNICATIONS ARE HOW THESE
ORGANIZATIONS ARE GETTING THEIR
MESSAGE OUT AND IN SOME WAY
COMMUNICATING.
SO IT WILL HAVE TO BE A VERY
COOPTIVE EFFORT BETWEEN THE
TECHNOLOGY COMMUNITY, U.S. AND
ABOARD AND GLOBAL
COUNTERTERRORISM OFFICIALS.
>> Sreenivasan: WE HAVE
MEMBERS OF THE MILITARY SAYING
THE EQUIVALENT OF LET'S RAISE
THE THREAT LEVEL AND RECHECK THE
SECURITY FEATURES WE HAVE, BUT
HOW DO YOU PREVENT AN ATTACK
FROM A LONE WOLF LIKE THIS?
>> THIS IS REALLY DIFFICULT, AND
THIS IS SOME OF THE WORST FEARS
OF THE U.S. COUNTERTERRORISM
OFFICIALS.
DETECTING THESE PEOPLE IN THE
FIRST INSTANCE IS DIFFICULT
BECAUSE TO HAVE THE NATURE OF
SOCIAL MEDIA AND COMMUNICATIONS
BURKS EVEN ONCE YOU IDENTIFY
THEM, TO ACTUALLY TRACK AND
SURVEIL THEM, REALLY, THE
RESOURCES OF THE F.B.I. AND
LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT ARE
TOTALLY SWAMPED.
SO IT'S A REAL CHALLENGE.
SO THIS WILL INVOLVE WORKOVER
SEAS TO NINISH ORGANIZATIONS
LIKE I.S.I.S., DOMESTIC EFFORTS
HERE AND FORCED PROTECTION.
BUT SOME OF THESE PEOPLE WILL
ALWAYS REMAIN VULNERABLE IN A
SOCIETY WHERE PEOPLE CAN EASILY
GAIN ACCESS TO WEAPONS,
UNFORTUNATELY WE ARE GOING TO
FACE EVENTS LIKE THIS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ARE THE
RED FLAGS COUNTERTERRORISM
OFFICIALS ARE LOOKING FOR?
BECAUSE THIS INDIVIDUAL WAS NOT
ON THE RADAR.
>> WELL, NORMALLY, OFFICIALS
WOULD BE LOOKING FOR, AGAIN,
ENGAGEMENT IN SOCIAL MEDIA,
STATEMENTS OR COMMUNICATIONS OF
KNOWN TERRORISTS WHICH REALLY
SUGGESTED A RADICALIZATION AND
POTENTIALLY A MOVEMENT TOWARD
EXECUTING AN ATTACK.
CERTAINLY SOME OF THE TRAVEL
MIGHT HAVE RAISED RED FLAGS, BUT
THIS IS AN INDIVIDUAL OF
JORDANIAN DESCENT, SO SIMPLY
TRAVELING TO JORDAN WOULDN'T DO
IT.
WHAT'S MOST CONCERNING ABOUT
THIS CASE, EVEN IF IT'S ONLY 24
HOURS LATER, RIGHT NOW THERE ARE
VERY FEW RED FLAGS, VERY FEW
DOTS THAT APPEARED TO BE MISSED.
IN THAT REGARD, THE SPEED WITH
WHICH THIS INDIVIDUAL APPEARS TO
HAVE GONE FROM A WELL-EDUCATED,
WELL-INTEGRATED INDIVIDUAL IN
SOCIETY, TO SOMEONE WHO WOULD
PERPETRATE THESE ATTACKS WITH
FEW IN ANY INDICATORS,
HIGHLIGHTS HOW HARD THIS
CHALLENGE IS.
>> Sreenivasan: MILE MILE,
FORMER DIRECTOR TO HAVE THE
NATIONAL COUNTERTERRORISM
CENTER, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THE NUCLEAR
AGREEMENT REACHED BY THE UNITED
STATES AND OTHER MAJOR WORLD
POWERS WITH IRAN HAS PROVOKED AN
INTENSE REACTION IN WASHINGTON
AND AROUND THE WORLD.
THIS MORNING I SAT DOWN AT THE
STATE DEPARTMENT WITH THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION'S POINT MAN ON
THE DEAL, SECRETARY JOHN KERRY,
TO DISCUSS IT AND THE REACTION
IT HAS GENERATED.
SECRETARY JOHN KERRY, THANK YOU
FOR TALKING WITH US.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: SO IT'S BEEN
THREE DAYS SINCE YOU MADE THIS
ANNOUNCEMENT.
>> IS THAT ALL?
FEELS LIKE AN ETERNITY.
>> Woodruff: WHEN DID YOU KNOW
YOURSELF THAT THIS WAS GOING TO
COME TOGETHER?
>> I REALLY ONLY KNEW IN THE
LAST COUPLE OF DAYS, AND EVEN
THEN THERE WERE SOME TOUGH
ISSUES TO RESOLVE IN THE FINAL
HOURS WHICH COULD HAVE SNAGGED
THE WHOLE THING.
BUT A WEEK BEFORE, I THINK IT
WAS SUNDAY A WEEK OUT, I HAD A
VERY DIRECT AND VERY SOBER
DISCUSSION WITH MY COUNTERPART
QUESTIONING WHETHER OR NOT THEY
REALLY HAD THE ABILITY AND/OR
THE POLITICAL SPACE AND THE
AUTHORITY TO BE ABLE TO MAKE A
DEAL, AND I MADE IT CLEAR THAT
IF WE DIDN'T MOVE IN A DIFFERENT
DIRECTION FROM WHERE WE WERE, WE
WERE READY TO GO HOME.
>> Woodruff: BUT IT TURNED
AROUND.
>> IT TURNED AROUND, AND WE
REALLY GOT DOWN TO BUSINESS.
THINGS BEGAN TO MOVE.
THERE WAS ALWAYS THE
RELATIONSHIP OF KEY ISSUES WITH
OTHER ISSUES, AND AS WE BEGAN TO
MAKE PROGRESS, IT SORT OF
UNLOCKED THE KEYS TO THE PUZZLE,
AND IT WAS A PUZZLE.
ALL THE PIECES HAVE TO COME
TOGETHER IN THE RIGHT WAY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU MAKE
TO HAVE THE REACTION, ESPECIALLY
ON CAPITOL HILL, WHICH YOU KNOW
SO WELL IS THIS.
>> WELL, LOOK, I LOOK FORWARD TO
MY DISCUSSIONS ON CAPITOL HILL,
I REALLY WANT TO SIT DOWN AND GO
INTO THE DEAL BECAUSE I THINK
THE DEAL WOULD STAND SCRUTINY.
I MEAN, WE'VE SPENT FOUR YEARS
NEGOTIATING THIS.
THIS WAS NOT A RUSH.
IF IT WAS A RUSH, WE WOULD HAVE
DONE ATE LONG TIME AGO.
WE NEEDED TO MAKE SURE WE WERE
DOING THE THINGS THAT CLOSED OFF
THE FOUR PATHWAYS TO A BOMB.
WE KNEW WE WOULD BE SCRUTINIZED.
WHAT I REGRET IS SO MANY MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS, WITHOUT EVEN
READING THE AGREEMENT OR KNOWING
THE COMPONENTS WERE JUST
AUTOMATICALLY, OUT OF POLITICS
OR SOMETHING, SAYING NO AND THEN
FINDING THE REASONS TO HANG
THEIR HAT ON IT.
I THINK THAT'S REGRETTABLE.
BUT I LOOK FORWARD TO REALLY
ENGAGING ON THIS AND I THINK IT
DESERVES A VERY RESPONSIBLE AND
DEEP ANALYSIS, AND WE'RE READY
TO DIG IN WITH EVERYBODY AND GO
AT THAT.
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU
ABOUT SOME OF THE CONCERNS THAT
HAVE BEEN RAISED, TAKE THEM ONE
BY ONE.
INSPECTIONS.
THE ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS
WERE SAYING BACK IN THE SPRING
THEY WERE GOING TO BE ANYWHERE,
ANYTIME ACCESS.
THE PRESIDENT IS NOW USING THE
LANGUAGE "WHERE NECESSARY,"
"WHEN NECESSARY."
THAT'S DIFFERENT.
>> I TELL YOU, AS A NEGOTIATOR
FOR THESE LAST MANY YEARS, WE
NEVER HAD A DISCUSSION ABOUT
ANYWHERE, ANYTIME.
ANYWHERE, ANYTIME IS THIS YOU
EUPHEMISM THAT'S OUT THERE MAYBE
IN THE POLITICAL ATMOSPHERE BUT
IT'S NOT A REALISTIC OR EXISTING
TERM OF ART WITHIN ARMS CONTROL.
THERE IS NO COUNTRY ANYWHERE IN
THE WORLD THAT ALLOWS ANYWHERE
ANYTIME OR HAS ANYWHERE ANYTIME.
THE ONLY EXAMPLE I CAN THINK OF
IS IRAQ AFTER WE INVADED, ONCE
WE HAD A TOTAL SU SURRENDER AND
TAKEOVER OF THE COUNTRY.
THAT'S DIFFERENT.
SO WHAT YOU HAVE UNDER THE
I.A.E.A. IS WHAT'S CALLED
MANAGED ACCESS OR ACCESS
STRUCTURE.
BUT WE NEGOTIATED SOMETHING THAT
DOESN'T EXIST IN ANY OTHER
AGREEMENT, AND THAT IS A
RESOLUTION OF A STANDOFF.
IF THEY ARE NOT ALLOWING US THE
ACCESS THAT WE NEED IN ORDER TO
PROPERLY DETERMINE WHETHER A
SUSPICIOUS SITE OR SOME SITE
WHERE WE HAVE ACTIVITIES THAT WE
HAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT, THAT THAT
IS BEING ACCESSED, IF THAT
DOESN'T HAPPEN, WE HAVE A
SPECIFIC PROCESS BY WHICH WE CAN
GO TO THE UNITED NATIONS
SECURITY COUNCIL, WE CAN BRING
BACK ALL THE SANCTIONS, AND WE
CAN LITERALLY ORDER INSPECTIONS
AND, IF THEY DON'T COMPLY,
THEY'RE IN MATERIAL BREECH OF
THIS AGREEMENT.
THAT'S NEVER HAPPENED BEFORE.
>> Woodruff: THE FORMER U.N.
WEAPONS INSPECTOR SAID THIS IS A
PLAN THAT'S HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON
THE ATTITUDE AND AGGRESSIVENESS
OF THE INTERNATIONAL INSPECTORS.
HE SAYS THEY WILL BE UNDER
ENORMOUS POLITICAL PRESSURE NOT
TO BE TOO HARD ON IRAN.
>> I DISAGREE.
I THINK IT'S THE EXACT OPPOSITE.
THEY WILL BE UNDER ENORMOUS
PRESSURE TO HOLD IRAN
ACCOUNTABLE AND LET THE WORLD
SEE THAT WE GET THE ANSWERS THAT
WE NEED.
THERE IS NOTHING IN THIS
AGREEMENT, JUDY, THAT IS BASED
ON TRUST.
EVERY ASPECT OF THIS AGREEMENT
IS, IN FACT, BASED ON
VERIFICATION AND THE ABILITY TO
KNOW WHAT IS HAPPENING.
>> Woodruff: ANOTHER ASPECT OF
THIS, MR. SECRETARY, ARE THESE
PAST MILITARY-RELATED NUCLEAR
ACTIVITIES.
MR. DOLPHO SAID THE ABILITY OF
INSPECTORS TO GET ACCESS TO
THESE DOZEN OR SO SITES IS STILL
HIGHLY UNCERTAIN.
HE'S READ THE AGREEMENT, TALKED
TO OTHERS ABOUT IT, HE SAYS IT'S
STILL NOT CLEAR IF WE HAVE THAT
KIND OF ACCESS.
>> FIRST OF ALL, THEY ARE NOT
ALL SITES THAT HAVE TO BE
VISITED.
THERE ARE SOME SITES AND SOME
PEOPLE THAT NEED TO BE TALKED TO
AND OTHER INVESTIGATION NEEDS TO
TAKE PLACE.
THERE IS A PLAN THAT HAS BEEN
SIGNED BY IRAN AND THE I.A.E.A.
WHICH DIRECTOR GENERAL AMANO IS
SATISFIED THAT WILL ALLOW THEM
TO SOLVE THE ISSUES.
THERE ARE SITES THAT HAVE BEEN
NEGOTIATED AS PART OF THE PLAN.
WE HAVE CONFIDENCE THE I.A.E.A.
WILL GET THE ANSWERONS A VERY
SPECIFIC SCHEDULE THEY NEED AND
NO RELIEF, NO SANCTIONS RELIEF
WILL BE GIVEN TO IRAN UNTIL THAT
IS DONE, MADE A POINT ABOUT THE
PARTICULAR PHASE THEY'RE DOING
AND THEN ONGOING EFFORTS BY THE
I.A.E.A. TO DETERMINE THE BROAD
CONCLUSION WHICH IS WHETHER OR
NOT IRAN IS ENGAGED IN ANY
ACTIVITIES IN DECLARED OR
UNDECLARED SITES WITH RESPECT TO
REPPIZATION.
THAT TAKES A LONGER PERIOD OF
TIME, AND THE I.A.E.A. IS
SATISFIED THEY WILL BE ABLE TO
MAKE THAT DETERMINATION.
>> Woodruff: YOU'VE EMPHASIZED
THIS IS A DEAL AT IRAN'S NUCLEAR
PROGRAM AND WASN'T INTENDED TO
GET TO ANYTHING ELSE, AND YET
THERE IS CONCERN IRAN WILL TAKE
MONEY FROM THE UNFROZEN ASSETS
AND USE IT TO CREATE MISCHIEF,
MORE MISCHIEF IN THE AREA --
GIVE SOME OF IT TO HEZBOLLAH,
SOME TO THE SHIITE MILITIAS IN
YEMEN, SO FORTH.
WHAT IS THE U.S. PREPARED TO DO
ABOUT THAT?
>> WE'LL CLAMP DOWN.
THEY'RE NOT ALLOWED TO DO THAT
OUTSIDE, EVEN, OF THIS
AGREEMENT.
THERE IS A U.N. RESOLUTION THAT
SPECIFICALLY APPLIES TO THEM NOT
BEING ALLOWED TO TRANSFER TO
HEZBOLLAH.
THEY ARE SPECIFICALLY NOT
ALLOWED UNDER ANOTHER U.N.
RESOLUTION TO TRANSFER TO THE
SHIA MILITIA IN IRAQ.
THEY ARE SPECIFICALLY NOT
ALLOWED TO TRANSFER TO THE
HOUTHIS.
I WILL BE MEETING WITH ALL TO
HAVE THE GULF STATES IN ABOUT
TWO WEEKS AND SECRETARY CARTER
IS MEETING WITH THEM IN RIYADH
NEXT WEEK, WE ARE LAYING DOWN
THE STEPS WE WILL TAKE TO WORK
WITH OUR FRIEND AND ALLIES IN
THE REGION TO PUSH BACK AGAINST
THIS BEHAVIOR.
NOW, WITH RESPECT TO THE MONEY,
I CAN'T TELL YOU THAT SOME --
YOU KNOW, SOME AMOUNT OF MONEY
MIGHT NOT FIND IT'S WAY TO
SOMETHING OR ANOTHER, BUT I TELL
YOU SOMETHING, NOTHING AROUND
WHAT THEY HAVE BEEN DOING TODAY
IS AROUND MONEY.
THE GULF STATES ARE SPENDING
$130 BILLION A YEAR.
SO THERE IS SOMETHING ELSE GOING
ON.
THIS IS ABOUT ORGANIZATION,
ABOUT CAPACITY.
AND WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO IS
BUILD THE CAPACITY OF OTHER
STATES IN THE REGION TO BE ABLE
TO PUSH BACK.
IN ADDITION TO THAT -- AND THIS
IS VERY IMPORTANT -- OUR
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY HAS DONE
A FULL ANALYSIS OF IRAN'S FISCAL
NEEDS, MONETARY NEEDS.
PRESIDENT ROUHANI NEEDS TO
DELIVER TO THE IRANIAN PEOPLE.
THEY HAVE HIGH EXPECTATIONS FROM
THIS DEAL FOR A CHANGE IN THEIR
LIFESTYLE.
IRAN NEEDS TO SPEND $300 BILLION
JUST TO BRING THEIR OIL INDUSTRY
CAPACITY BACK TO WHERE IT WAS
FIVE YEARS AGO.
THEY HAVE A $900 BILLION NEED OF
EXPENDITURE FOR THEIR BANKS, FOR
ARREARAGES, FOR INFRASTRUCTURE.
SO $100 BILLION, WHICH IS THEIR
MONEY, BY THE WAY, WHICH WE'VE
FROZEN AND THEY THEN GET IS THE
PRICE YOU PAY FOR ACHIEVING NO
NUCLEAR WEAPON.
THE OTHER CHOICE, ARE YOU
PREPARED TO DO WHAT THE U.N.
RESOLUTION SAYS WHICH IS LIFT
THE SANCTIONS OVER A PERIOD OF
TIME IN RETURN FOR THEIR
NEGOTIATING, WHERE, BY THE WAY,
THEY DIDN'T JUST COME TO THE
NEGOTIATIONS, THEY HAVE CUT A
DEAL, OR DO YOU WANT TO GO TO
WAR?
BECAUSE THE ALTERNATIVE TO THIS
DEAL IS THEY WILL DO WHATEVER
THEY WANT, WE WILL LOSE THE
SANCTIONS, WE WILL LOSE THE
SUPPORT OF THE GLOBAL COMMUNITY.
IF THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED
STATES TURNS THIS DOWN, THERE
WILL BE CONFLICT IN THE REGION
BECAUSE THAT'S THE ONLY
ALTERNATIVE THE AYATOLLAH, IF
THE UNITED STATES SAYS NO, WILL
NOT COME BACK TO THE NEGOTIATE
AND WHO CAN BLAME HIM.
>> Woodruff: TWO OTHER QUICK
POINTS.
ONE, WHAT DO YOU SEE THE U.S.
DOING IN THIS NEW RELATIONSHIP
WITH IRAN?
DO YOU SEE THE U.S. WORKING NOT
ONLY THE PARALLEL FOR IRAN BUT
WORKING FOR THE SAME PURPOSE TO
TRY TO BRING STABILITY?
>> WELL, THE TRUTH IS WE JUST
DON'T KNOW.
THIS WAS A NUCLEAR AGREEMENT.
BECAUSE WE BELIEVE THAT GETTING
TO A PLACE WHERE IRAN CANNOT
HAVE A NUCLEAR WEAPON WAS
ESSENTIAL PRIORITY NUMBER ONE
BECAUSE, IN THE PUSHBACK AGAINST
THESE OTHER ACTIVITIES, YOU ARE
CLEARLY BETTER OFF PUSHING BACK
AGAINST AN IRAN THAT DOESN'T
HAVE A NUCLEAR WEAPON RATHER
THAN ONE THAT HAS ONE.
SO WE HAVEN'T NEGOTIATED THESE
OTHER IUES.SS
WE DON'T KNOW YET WHAT PRESIDENT
ROUHANI SAID, WHICH WAS
WELCOMED, BY THE WAY, I THINK HE
MADE IMPORTANT STATEMENTS ABOUT
THEIR WILLINGNESS TO WORK ON
REGIONAL STABILITY.
MY COUNTERPART FOREIGN MINISTER
ZARIF MADE IMPORTANT COMMENTS TO
ME ABOUT WILLINGNESS TO DO THAT.
BUT WE WON'T KNOW TILL WE GO
DOWN THIS ROAD, IMPLEMENT THE
AGREEMENT AND WORK ON THE
POSSIBILITIES OF SOME OF THE
OTHER ISSUES.
>> Woodruff: RELATED
QUESTION -- EVEN FRIENDS OF THE
ADMINISTRATION ARE SAYING THAT
THIS PRESIDENT WILL HAVE TO WORK
NOW TO REESTABLISH NORMAL
RELATIONS WITH ISRAEL AGAIN,
THAT THOSE HAVE BEEN BADLY
FRAYED BY THIS IRAN AGREEMENT.
>> I TALKED TO PRIME MINISTER
NETANYAHU YESTERDAY, I'VE TALKED
TO HIM REGULARLY THROUGHOUT THIS
PROCESS, AND WE ARE ABSOLUTELY
BY FAR MORE LINKED DAY TO DAY IN
THE SECURITY RELATIONSHIP WITH
ISRAEL THAN AT ANYTIME IN
HISTORY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS PREPARED TO
UPGRADE THAT, TO WORK TO DO MORE
TO BE ABLE TO ADDRESS SPECIFIC
CONCERNS.
BUT WE STILL BELIEVE THAT ISRAEL
WILL BE SAFER WITH A ONE-YEAR
BREAKOUT IN TEN YEARS THAN TWO
MONTHS.
THERE'S NO ALTERNATIVE PROVIDED
BY THESE OTHER PEOPLE.
THEY ALL SAY, WHY DIDN'T YOU
CRUSH THEM WITH THE SANCTIONS?
I TELL YOU WHY, BECAUSE THEY
WON'T BE CRUSHED BY SANCTIONS.
THAT'S PROVEN.
AND BECAUSE WE'LL LOSE THE OTHER
PEOPLE HELPING TO PROVIDE THE
SANCTIONS.
THEY WON'T DO THAT IF IRAN IS
WILLING TO MAKE A REASONABLE
AGREEMENT.
SO THERE IS A LOT OF FANTASY OUT
THERE ABOUT THIS "BETTER DEAL."
THE FACT IS WE SPENT FOUR YEARS
PUTTING TOGETHER AN AGREEMENT
THAT HAD THE CO CONSENT OF RUSS,
CHINA, FRANCE, GERMANY, GREAT
BRITAIN AND IRAN.
THAT IS NOTTIZE EASY, AND I
BELIEVE THE AGREEMENT WE GOT
WILL STAND SCRUTINY AND WILL
DELIVER AN IRAN THAT CANNOT GET
A NUCLEAR WEAPON.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, NIP
DOUBT IN YOUR MIND -- ANY DOUBT
IN YOUR MIND THE SUPREME LEADER
WILL ENDORSE THIS AND ANY CHANCE
THE U.N. WILL DELAY THE VOTE IN
THE SECURITY COUNCIL?
>> WE DON'T DELAY THE VOTE IN
THE SECURITY COUNCIL BUT IT WAS
STRUCTURED TO COMPLETELY RESPECT
THE PREROGATIVES OF CONGRESS.
>> Woodruff: THE SUPREME
LEADER?
>> I CAN'T SPEAK -- I DON'T --
YOU KNOW, IF HE DECIDES NOT TO
DO THIS, THEN THAT SOLVES A LOT
OF PROBLEMS FOR PEOPLE ON THE
HILL AND IT SOLVES A LOT OF
PROBLEMS FOR THOSE WHO THINK
THIS DOESN'T MEET THEIR
STANDARD, AND I THINK IT CREATES
SERIOUS PROBLEMS FOR IRAN.
I DOUBT THAT WILL HAPPEN, BUT
I'M NOT GOING TO VOUCH FOR ANY
CHOICES THAT IRAN MAY OR MAY NOT
MAKE.
>> Woodruff: SECRETARY JOHN
KERRY, WE THANK YOU FOR TALKING
WITH US.
>> GOOD TO BE WITH YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THIS WEEK A GROUP
OF ABORTION RIGHTS OPPONENTS
RELEASED A HIDDEN CAMERA VIDEO
OF A CONVERSATION WITH AN
OFFICIAL FROM PLANNED
PARENTHOOD, THAT'S THE NON
PROFIT ORGANIZATION THAT
PROVIDES REPRODUCTIVE AND OTHER
HEALTH CARE SERVICES INCLUDING
ABORTION TO WOMEN AND FAMILIES.
OUR POLITICAL EDITOR LISA
DESJARDINS SCREENED BOTH THE
EDITED AND UNEDITED VERSIONS OF
THE VIDEO AND REPORTS ON THE
FOOTAGE THAT IS CAUSING A
POLITICAL FIRESTORM.
A WARNING: SOME OF THE IMAGES
AND DETAILS IN THIS STORY ARE
GRAPHIC.
>> Reporter: THIS IS THE EDITED
VERSION OF THE VIDEO, WITH THE
UNDERCOVER ANTI-ABORTION GROUP'S
ADDED GRAPHICS.
ON SCREEN IS DR. DEBORAH
NUCATOLA, NATIONAL MEDICAL
DIRECTOR FOR PLANNED PARENTHOOD.
OFF SCREEN ARE TWO ANTI-ABORTION
ACTIVISTS WHO'VE SPENT MONTHS
POSING AS MEDICAL RESEARCHERS,
LOOKING TO PURCHASE FETAL
TISSUE.
>> Reporter: THE UNDERCOVER TEAM
LATER ASKS ABOUT BUYING SPECIFIC
FETAL PARTS.
A WARNING THIS EXCERPT IS
GRAPHIC AND MAY BE DISTURBING.
>> Reporter: THE LEGAL QUESTION
HERE: IS PLANNED PARENTHOOD--
PROVIDER OF 40% OF ALL THE
NATION'S ABORTIONS-- SELLING
FETAL TISSUE?
THAT IS ILLEGAL.
BUT DONATING FETAL TISSUE-- OR
RECOVERING OTHER EXPENSES LIKE
SHIPPING COSTS-- IS CLEARLY
LEGAL.
AND PART OF A FAST-GROWING
RESEARCH FIELD.
SOME CELLS ARE USED TO HELP
PATIENTS WITH IMMUNE DISEASE OR
TO RESEARCH CURES FOR THINGS
LIKE ALZHEIMER'S RESEARCH.
THAT RESEARCH HAS ITS OWN
ETHICAL DEBATE.
THE ISSUE HERE IS WHETHER
PLANNED PARENTHOOD IS PROFITING
FROM ABORTED FETAL TISSUE.
IN A VIDEO STATEMENT, PLANNED
PARENTHOOD DIRECTOR CECILE
RICHARDS SAID ABSOLUTELY NOT.
>> RECENTLY, AN ORGANIZATION
THAT OPPOSES SAFE AND LEGAL
ABORTION USED SECRETLY RECORDED,
HEAVILY EDITED VIDEOS TO MAKE
OUTRAGEOUS CLAIMS ABOUT PROGRAMS
THAT HELP WOMEN DONATE FETAL
TISSUE FOR MEDICAL RESEARCH.
I WANT TO BE REALLY CLEAR: THE
ALLEGATION THAT PLANNED
PARENTHOOD PROFITS IN ANY WAY
FROM TISSUE DONATION IS NOT
TRUE.
>> Reporter: RICHARDS DID
APOLOGIZE FOR THE TONE THE STAFF
MEMBER TOOK.
>> THIS IS UNACCEPTABLE, AND I
PERSONALLY APOLOGIZE FOR THE
STAFF MEMBER'S TONE AND
STATEMENTS.
>> Reporter: THE NEWSHOUR
REVIEWED THE NEARLY THREE-HOUR
UNEDITED VIDEO.
IN IT, PLANNED PARENTHOOD
REPEATEDLY STRESSING THAT TISSUE
TRANSFER IS MEANT TO HELP
RESEARCH AND CLINICS ONLY CHARGE
TO RECOUP THEIR COSTS.
>> Reporter: THIS IS A REPEATED
THEME.
>> Reporter: THE VIDEO HAS
ENFLAMED THE LONG HEATED
ABORTION DEBATE AND REPUBLICANS
LIKE HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER
HAVE POUNCED.
>> NOW IF YOU'VE SEEN THIS
VIDEO, I DON'T HAVE TO TELL YOU
HOW SICKENING IT IS.
SO REST ASSURED, WE'RE GOING TO
GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THIS AND
PROTECT THE VALUES THAT WE HOLD
DEAR.
>> Reporter: FOR PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES COURTING
CONSERVATIV IT ESIS AN EASY
TARGET.
KENTUCKY SENATOR RAND PAUL WANTS
A SENATE VOTE TO DEFUND PLANNED
PARENTHOOD, LOUISIANA GOVERNOR
BOBBY JINDAL HAS LAUNCHED A
STATE INVESTIGATION, TEXAS
SENATOR TED CRUZ WANTS A
CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATION.
AND HALF A DOZEN OTHERS FROM
SCOTT WALKER TO JEB BUSH HAVE
TWEETED, FACEBOOK-POSTED AND
RELEASED WORDS OF OUTRAGE AND
ALARM.
AS REPUBLICANS DIG IN, SO DOES
PLANNED PARENTHOOD.
>> WE KNOW THE REAL AGENDA OF
ORGANIZATIONS BEHIND VIDEOS LIKE
THIS, AND THEY HAVE NEVER BEEN
CONCERNED WITH PROTECTING THE
HEALTH AND SAFETY OF WOMEN.
THEIR MISSION IS TO BAN ABORTION
COMPLETELY AND CUT WOMEN OFF
FROM CARE AT PLANNED PARENTHOOD
AND OTHER HEALTH CENTERS.
WE WILL NEVER LET THAT HAPPEN.
AN UNDERCOVER VIDEO OPENED A
VERY PUBLIC NEXT ROUND IN THE
NATION'S APPORTION DEBATE.
FOR THE PBS "NewsHour", I'M
LISA DESJARDINS IN WASHINGTON.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, TO THE
ANALYSIS OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELCOME TO YOU, GENTLEMEN.
A LOT TO TALK ABOUT THIS FRIDAY.
LET'S START WITH IRAN.
MARK, WE JUST HEARD THE
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY,
WHAT HE HAD TO SAY ABOUT THIS
NUCLEAR DEAL.
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF IT?
I THINK THE PRESIDENT SUMMARIZED
IT VERY WELL.
HE SAID DON'T LET THE
UNATTAINABLE PERFECT BE THE
ENEMY OF THE OBTAINABLE FOOD.
I THINK THIS IS THE OBTAINABLE
GOOD.
THE OBJECT BEING A NON-NUCLEAR
IRAN AND I THINK THIS GUARANTEES
AT LEAST FOR TEN YEARS THAT
THERE WILL BE A NONNUCLEAR IRAN.
IT DOES NOT CHANGE IRAN'S
CONDUCT AND WHAT IT DOES, AS THE
SECRETARY POINTED OUT, AND WE
HOPE THAT DOES CHANGE BUT THIS
IS ABOUT DEALING WITH NUCLEAR
ARMS IN A TROUBLED AREA AND THIS
IS A POSITIVE STEP AND ONE THAT
I THINK THE PRESIDENT IS AT THE
TOP OF HIS GAME, QUITE FRANKLY,
FROM CHARLESTON TO THE PRESS
CONFERENCE THIS WEEK, I THOUGHT
HE WAS COMPELLING IN BOTH CASES.
>> Woodruff: SAVED, WHAT'S
YOUR TAKE?
>> I'M EXTREMELY SKEPTICAL.
I START MUCH MORE THAN SECRETARY
KERRY THAT I BELIEVE THIS IS A
THEO CONTRACT REGIME THAT WANTS
TO BE THE DOMINANT POWER IN THE
REGION AND SPREAD A RADICAL
VERSION OF RELIGIOUS IDEOLOGY.
SO I THINK TO GIVE THAT REGIME
$150 BILLION TO UP FUNDING FOR
HEZBOLLAH AND OTHER TERRORIST
ARMIES AROUND THE REGION IS
DANGEROUS, TO LEGITIMIZE THEIR
NUCLEAR ENRICHMENT PROGRAM IS
DANGEROUS, TO LIFT THE BAN ON
CONVENTIONAL WEAPONS IS
DANGEROUS, AND TO HAVE A REGIME
THAT, YOU KNOW, THE INSPECTION
REGIME, PEOPLE ARE GETTING LOST
IN THE DETAILS, IT IS NOT A BAD
REGIME.
I SUSPECT IT WILL PROBABLY DELAY
THE NUCLEAR PROGRAM, BUT IT'S
THEIR COUNTRY AND IF THEY'RE
MOTIVATED TO BUILD THIS WEAPON
AND THEY HAVE EVERY INCENTIVE TO
DO SO, I ASSUME THEY WILL FIND A
WAY TO KEEP THE CENTRIFUGES
GOING AND GET A BREAKOUT AFTER
THE SANCTIONS ARE LIFTED.
I'M SKEPTICAL.
>> Woodruff: SECRETARY KERRY
PUSHED BACK ON THE IDEA THAT
IRAN WILL USE THE MONEY TO GREAT
MISCH THE REGION, MARK.
BUT DO THE CRITICS -- YOU KNOW,
DAVID'S POINT, DO THEY HAVE A
POINT THAT IT IS, AFTER ALL,
IRAN'S TO DO WITH THIS MONEY
IT'S GOI TONG GET.
>> SURE, IT'S INACTION TO CHANCE
ACTION.
THIS IS A BOLD ACTION ON THE
PART OF THE PRESIDENT, IN MY
JUDGMENT.
YOU HAVE VICE PRESIDENT CHENEY
SAYING WE DON'T NEGOTIATE WITH
EVIL, WE DEFEAT IT, AND, JUDY,
QUITE FRANKLY, I THINK THE
REALITY IS THAT, AFTER THE
EXPERIENCE OF THE PAST 12 YEARS
OF THE UNITED STATES AND THE
MIDDLE EAST, 4500 AMERICANS DID,
3500 SEVERELY WOUNDED AND
$2 TRILLION SPENT, I THINK
AMERICANS HAVE LOST CONFIDENCE
IN THE ONE SIZE FITS ALL, LET'S
GET TOUGH, POWERFUL AND KICK
TAIL.
THAT IS NOT THE ANSWER, AND IT
IS NOT THE SOLUTION, AND, QUITE
BLUNTLY, THE REALITY OF FRACKING
IN THIS COUNTRY AND THE
PRODUCTION OF OIL IN THIS
COUNTRY HAS RELIEVED SOME OF THE
URGENCY OF THE UNITED STATES
PROJECTING FURTHER FORCE IN THAT
AREA.
SO I THINK THIS IS THE BEST
ALTERNATIVE BY, FAR.
>> Woodruff: SO, DAVID, YOU
DON'T THINK THE PRESIDENT'S
ARGUMENTS HELP THE
ADMINISTRATION.
DO YOU HAVE A SENSE OF WHAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN ON THE HILL AND
WHETHER THEY'RE GOING TO EITHER
BACK THIS OR REJECT IT?
>> I WOULD BE SHOCKED IF THEY
REJECTED IT.
THERE ARE SOME SENATORS, A LOT
OF DEMOCRATIC SENATORS, CHUCK
SCHUMER FROM NEW YORK, DICK
DURBIN FROM ILLINOIS AND OTHERS
ARE SITTING ON THE FENCE TILL
THEY READ IT, THAT SEEMS
APPROPRIATE, AND SOME ARE MAKING
SKEPTICAL NOISES.
IT WOULD BE A MAJOR SETBACK FROM
THE DEMOCRATS BUT I WOULD BE
STUNNED IF IT HAPPENED.
POSSIBLE, BUT SURPRING ISIF IT
HAPPENED.
>> I THINK DAVID IS MORE
BULLISH.
I THINK THE SENATE IS NOW VERY
MUCH IN DOUBT AS TO WHAT WOULD
HAPPEN, SUSTAINING THE
PRESIDENTIAL VETO.
I THINK THE BEST CHANCE THE
DEMOCRATS HAVE AND THE PRESIDENT
HAS IS IN THE HOUSE WHERE YOU'VE
GOT THE MOST EFFECTIVE
DEMOCRATIC VOTE OF THE PAST
GENERATION, NANCY PELOSI, ON
YOUR SIDE AND I THINK THAT MAY
VERY WELL BE THE KEY TO THIS.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO TURN TO
THE 2016 RACE FOR PRESIDENT.
BEFORE I DO THAT, MARK AND
DAVID, I WANT TO ASK ABOUT THE
STORY LISA DESJARDINS JUST
REPORTED FOR US, THIS PLANNED
PARENTHOOD CONTROVERSY, THE
VIDEOTAPED INTERVIEW OUT THERE
ABOUT SELLING FETAL TISSUE AND
WHETHER OR NOT PLANNED
PARENTHOOD IS PROFITING FROM
THAT.
A LOT OF REPUBLICANS, DAVID,
JUMPING ON THIS STORY.
IS THIS KIND OF A BONANZA FOR
REPUBLICANS?
SO MANY OF THE CANDIDATES FOR
PRESIDENT ARE DEPLORING IT AND
CALLING FOR PLANNED PARENTHOOD
TO BE DEFUNDED.
>> REPUBLICANS HAVE BEEN SORT OF
DEEMPHASIZING THIS ISSUE.
I GUESS WHEN YOU GO TO THE IOWA
CAUCUSES, YOU INCREASE
DISCUSSION OF IT, BUT THEY HAVE
BEEN DEEMPHASIZING THIS ISSUE
BECAUSE IT HASN'T BEEN A GREAT
GENERAL ELECTION ISSUE.
BUT THIS PARTICULAR VIDEO GIVES
THEM A CHANCE TO TALK ABOUT IT
IN A WAY THAT IS NOT GOING TO BE
OFFENDING TO A LOT OF PEOPLE IN
THE MIDDLE.
I THINK THE IDEA OF SELLING
PARTS IS NOT VERY GOOD TO
ANYBODY.
AND THE PART OF THE VIDEO THAT
OFFENDED ME IS WHETHER YOU'RE
PRO-CHOICE OR PRO-LIFE, THE
STATE OF THE FETUS LATE TERM IS
A MYSTERY, AND TO TALK ABOUT THE
BODY PARTS IN SUCH A CAVALIER
WAY SHOWED A CORROSIVENESS IN
THIS ISSUE, AND THE POLARIZATION
OF THIS ISSUE TENDS TO CORRODE
PEOPLE.
THIS IS A GOOD AND EASY SHOT FOR
REPUBLICANS BECAUSE IT'S NOT
ENGAGING THE ISSUE THAT'S SORT
OF UNPOPULAR, AND ALLOWS THEM TO
DEFEND THE RIGHTS OF THE UNBORN.
>> Woodruff: MARK.
I THINK ABORTION REMAINS A
PAINFUL AND DIFFICULT ISSUE IN
THIS COUNTRY.
AMERICA, I THINK IT'S FAIR TO
SAY, IS PRO-CHOICE.
THEY DON'T WANT TO CRIMINALIZE A
WOMAN WHO IN CONSULTATION WITH
HER CONSCIENCE OR CONFESSOR OR
PHYSICIAN DECIDES ON THE PAINFUL
PROCESS OF ENDING A PREEING
SIVMENT AT THE SAME TIME,
AMERICA'S ANTI-ABORTION.
THE THE IDEA THIS IS SOMEHOW A
VIRTUOUS ACT IS OBJECTIONABLE
AND UNACCEPTABLE TO AMERICANS.
I THINK WHAT YOU HAVE HERE IS
ADMITTEDLY, I GIVE LISA
DESJARDINS CREDIT FOR GOING
THROUGH THE THREE HOURS OF IT,
AN EDIT VERSION.
BUT STILL, YOU HAVE THE DOCTOR
FROM PLANNED PARENTHOOD IN A
VERY CAVALIER AND CALLOUS
FASHIONED TALKING ABOUT WE'RE
GOING TO GO IN IN A WAY -- NOT
THAT THIS IS SOME SURGICAL
PROCEDURE BEING PERFORMED ON
WOMEN AND ENDING A LIFE OR
POTENTIAL LIFE, BUT IN A WAY
THAT WE'RE GOING TO PRESERVE THE
ORGANS FOR USE.
I MEAN, I THINK CECILE RICHARDS
HAD NO ALTERNATIVE, THE
PRESIDENT OF PLANNED PARENTHOOD,
EXCEPT TO APOLOGIZE FOR THAT
TONE AND THE WAY IT WAS DONE.
>> Woodruff: LET'S BROADEN OUT
AND TALK ABOUT THE 2016 RACE.
ONE MORE NAME HAS FORMALLY
JOINED DAVID THIS WEEK, GOVERNOR
SCOTT WALKER, WE TALKED ABOUT
HIM ON THIS PROGRAM BEFORE.
NOW THAT HE'S IN, WHAT DOES IT
DO TO THE RACE?
DOES IT SHAKE THINGS UP?
WHAT DO YOU SEE?
>> WELL, POLITICALLY, HE'S GOT A
REASONABLY STRAIGHT SHOT.
HIS STRATEGY IS CLEAR, HE'S GOT
TO WIN IOWA IN FIRST CAUCUSES.
NOT EXPECTED TO DO SUPER WELL IN
NEW HAMPSHIRE, BUT PRETTY WELL
IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
IF HE DOES THAT, HE WILL BE
SITTING PRETTY.
HE'S DEFINITELY IN THE TOP
THREE, I THINK, NOW, BUT HE WILL
BE RIDING HIGH JUST FROM THE
MEDIA EXPOSURE.
HIS ADVANTAGES ARE HE HAS A
GENUINE WORKING CLASS VOICE.
HE'S NOT THE GREATEST ORATOR,
BUT IS A GOOD EXPLAINER, A GOOD
RETAIL POLITICIAN, AND FOR
CONSERVATIVES, PEOPLE LIKE TED
CRUZ WHO HAVEN'T ACHIEVED MUCH,
SCOTT WALKER CAN POINT TO
LEGISLATIVE ACCOMPLISHMENTS AS
GOVERNOR.
SO HE HAS A REASONABLY STRONG
STORY TO TELL, WILL BE A
REASONABLY STRONG CANDIDATE.
IN THE LAST TWO MONTHS, A
CAVEAT, HE HASN'T BEEN SETTING
THE WORLD ON FIRE.
HE'S LED JEB BUSH AND MARCO
RUBIO TAKE MOMENTUM IN THE
CAMPAIGN, BUT HE WILL BE STRONG,
I THINK.
>> Woodruff: SETTING THE WORLD
ON FIRE, MARK?
>> I THINK SETTING THE WORLD ON
FIRE IS A EUPHEMISM.
THE FACT IS WISCONSIN IS A BLUE
STATE.
NO DEMOCRAT HAS LOST --
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE HAS LOST
WISCONSIN SINCE RONALD REAGAN
WON IT FOR THE REPUBLICANS IN
1984.
IT'S THE ONLY STATE THAT ELECTED
AN OPENLY LESBIAN UNITED STATES
SENATOR, TAMMY BALDWIN.
THREE TIMES IN FOUR YEARS SCOTT
WALKER HAS WON CLOSE ELECTIONS
IN WISCONSIN.
HE'S A FAVORITE OF A LOT OF
CONSERVATIVES BECAUSE HE DID
TAKE ON PUBLIC EMPLOYEE UNIONS.
HE HAS DELIVERED.
HE'S A SOCIAL, CULTURAL AS WELL
AS ECONOMIC CONSERVATIVE.
HE HAS A STORY TO TELL.
HE'S A FO FORMIDABLE CANDIDATE.
HE'S GOING TO HAVE SERIOUS
FINANCIAL BACKING.
THE PROBLEM IS, THERE'S A
LINGERING I CAN SEE ALASKA FROM
MY FRONT PORCH, OF GOVERNOR
PALIN.
HE SAID, FOR EXAMPLE, THAT
DEALING WITH I.S.I.S., HE HAD
DEALT WITH PUBLIC EMPLOYEES
UNIONS AND COULDN'T SAY WHETHER
THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF WAS A
CHRISTIAN AND HE GOT ON
EVOLUTION.
IT'S A RICK PERRY PROBLEM, IS HE
REALLY READY FOR PRIME TIME,
DIDN'T HAPPEN WHEN HE WAS QUOTED
SAYING "SMART" IS NOT IN THE
LEXICON OF VOTERS WHEN THEY
TALKED ABOUT HIM, BUT THEY WERE
WORKING ON THAT.
SO I THINK SCOTT WALKER HAS A
GREAT STORY TO TELL, BUT THERE
IS A QUESTION, IS HE GOING TO BE
ABLE TO HIT BIG LEAGUE PITCHING.
>> Woodruff: WE CAN'T TALK
ABOUT THIS WEEK IN THE
REPUBLICAN CONTEST, DAVID,
WITHOUT BRINGING UP THE NAME OF
BILLIONAIRE DONALD TRUMP BECAUSE
HE'S MOVED UP IN SOME OF THE
NATIONAL POLLS.
A LOT OF CONVERSATION ABOUT IT.
BUT IS IT HAVING A MATERIAL
EFFECT, DAVID, ON WHAT THIS
CONTEST IS ALL ABOUT?
>> I DON'T THINK SO.
I THINK HE'S THE CIRCUS ACT OF
THE WEEK.
HE DOES WELL IN THE POLLS AMONG
PEOPLE WHO LIKE THE SHOW, WHO
LIKE THE THUMB IN THE EYE OF THE
ESTABLISHMENT, BUT HUGE NUMBERS
OF THE REPUBLICAN PRIMARY VOTERS
SAID THEY WOULD NEVER VOTE FOR
HIM.
BUT THERE IS A LOW CEILING.
HE SUCKS UP OXYGEN, EMBARRASSES
THE PARTY.
HE'S NOT GETTING ELECTED.
THE THE ONLY WAY POTENTIALLY IS
HE LOVES THE ATTENTION AND
DECIDES HE WANTS TO RUN THIRD
PARTY IN THE GENERAL ELECTION OR
BE A STUNT CANDIDATE OUT THERE,
THEN HE WOULD REALLY TAKE VOTES
FROM THE REPUBLICANS.
THAT'S THE ONLY WAY I CAN SEE IT
EFFECTING ELECTORAL OUTCOME.
>> IN MAY, HE WAS AT 65%
UNFAVORABLE AMONG REPUBLICANS,
THAT DROPPED 25 POINTS BETWEEN
MAY AND JULY.
WHAT HAPPENED BETWEEN MAY AND
JULY?
HE ANNOUNCED AND HE PRESENTED
HIMSELF AS THE MOST VIE MOMENTLY
AN -- VEHEMENTLY
ANTI-IMMIGRATION CAMPAIGN.
THE ONE REPUBLICAN WHO TOOK HIM
ON, JEB BUSH AND MARCO RUBIO
PUSSY FOOTED AROUND.
LINDSELINDSEY GRAHAM SAID THIS A
MORAL QUESTION.
IF WE DO THIS, WE DESERVE TO
LOSE.
HE RAISED THE STAKES OF THE
FIRST DEBATE AUGUST 6 AND IT'S
GUARANTEED IT'S GOING TO BE A
QUESTION OF WHO STANDS UP TO
DONALD TRUMP AND STANDS UP ON
IMMIGRATION.
>> Woodruff: IT'S BECOME A
QUESTION IN THE PRIMARIES.
MARK SHIELDS, DAVID BROOKS, WE
THANK YOU BOTH.
THANKS.
>> Woodruff: AVIATION TECHNOLOGY
CONTINUES TO EVOLVE, AND IN
RECENT YEARS THERE'S BEEN A BIG
PUSH, BY BOTH PRIVATE COMPANIES
AND THE MILITARY, TO MAKE MORE
SOPHISTICATED AUTONOMOUS
AIRCRAFT OR DRONES.
A NEW RESEARCH PROJECT LED BY
THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON IS
PART OF THAT EFFORT AND AIMS TO
UNCOVER THE AERONAUTICAL SECRETS
OF SOME OF NATURE'S BEST
DESIGNED FLYERS-- INSECTS.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS OUR REPORT.
IT'S PART OF OUR BREAKTHROUGHS
SERIES ON INVENTION AND
INNOVATION.
>> Sreenivasan: HAVE YOU EVER
WATCHED A BEE FLY?
REALLY WATCHED THEM CLOSELY?
OR STUDIED A BUTTERFLY OR
DRAGONFLY DARTING AROUND YOUR
GARDEN?
WITH THE NAKED EYE, ITS OFTEN
HARD TO SEE HOW THEY ARE FLYING.
WITH TINY WINGS THAT CAN FLAP
HUNDREDS, AND SOMETIMES
THOUSANDS, OF TIMES A MINUTE.
BUT WHEN YOU WATCH IN SLOW
MOTION WITH THE HELP OF A HIGH-
SPEED CAMERA, YOU GET A WHOLE
NEW PERSPECTIVE ON THE
MYSTERIOUS, AND INCREDIBLY
COMPLEX WORLD, OF INSECT FLIGHT.
SO HOW DOES A BEE WITH SUCH A
GIANT BODY AND SUCH TINY WINGS
ACTUALLY FLY?
>> IT BEATS ITS WINGS REALLY
FAST AND YOU CAN'T EVEN SEE
THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: TOM DANIEL IS A
BIOLOGY PROFESSOR AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON, WHO
HAS LONG STUDIED BEES, AND ALL
SORTS OF FLYING INSECTS.
HE SAYS THERE'S A LOT SCIENTISTS
HAVE LEARNED ABOUT BEES OVER
HUNDREDS OF YEARS OF STUDY, BUT
THERE IS MUCH MORE TO LEARN
ABOUT HOW EXACTLY THEY FLY.
>> THE SENSORY INFORMATION
COMING OFF THE WINGS IS PROBABLY
PROVIDING GYROSCOPIC DATA.
THE INTERESTING THING IS THE
WINGS ARE MOVING SO FAST THEY
ARE PROBABLY EXQUISITELY
SENSITIVE TO THE ROTATIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHETHER BEES AND
OTHER INSECTS HAVE BUILT-IN
GYROSCOPES IN THEIR WINGS IS ONE
OF THE QUESTIONS TOM DANIEL IS
NOW TRYING TO ANSWER AS DIRECTOR
OF A NEW COLLABORATIVE REARCHSE
PROJECT-- FUNDED BY THE UNITED
STATES AIR FORCE-- CALLED THE
CENTER FOR EXCELLENCE ON NATURE-
INSPIRED FLIGHT TECHNOLOGIES AND
IDEAS.
DANIEL SAYS THE SCIENTISTS ON
THE TEAM AND THE MILITARY HAVE A
SHARED GOAL: TO BETTER
UNDERSTAND HOW INSECTS AND
ANALS IMFLY SO THAT HUMANS CAN
BUILD SMARTER, MORE EFFICIENT
AIRCRAFT.
>> WE LOOK TO NATURE.
ARE THERE IDEAS AND PRINCIPLES
THAT NATURE IS USING TO SOLVE
HARD FLIGHT CONTROL PROBLEMS?
CAN WE USE THOSE IDEAS TO
INSPIRE NEW TECHNOLOGIES, AND
CAN WE USE TECHNOLOGY TO DEEPEN
OUR UNDERSTANDING OF HOW NATURE
SOLVES ITS PROBLEMS?
>> Sreenivasan: RESEARCH IS NOW
UNDERWAY AT SEVERAL UNIVERSITIES
AROUND THE COUNTRY AND IN
EUROPE.
AMONG THE TEST SUBJECTS: BATS AT
JOHNS HOPKINS AND CRANE FLIES AT
CASE WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY.
D ATAN TOM DANIELS LAB AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON, THESE
HAWK MOTHS.
THIS IS A VIDEO SLOWED DOWN OF
ONE OF THOSE MOTHS THAT'S
FEEDING FROM A FLOWER.
LIKE A HUMMINGBIRD, THE MOTH HAS
TO MAKE HUNDREDS OF TINY
CORRECTIONS EVERY SECOND WITH A
PASSING BREEZE, IN ORDER TO STAY
PERFECTLY ALIGNED WITH THE
FLOWER-- A NATURAL FEAT SCIENCE
AND TECHNOLOGY CANNOT COME CLOSE
TO REPLICATING.
AND THAT'S PART OF WHAT
FASCINATES RESEARCHERS LIKE
DANIEL.
>> I POP THIS DOWN ON TOP.
>> Sreenivasan: ON THE DAY WE
VISITED, DANIEL WAS PREPPING ONE
OF THE MOTHS FOR AN EXPERIMENT
BY CAREFULLY GLUING A TINY METAL
ROD TO ITS BACK.
>> AND OFF YOU GO.
>> Sreenivasan: HE THEN ATTACHED
THE MOTH TO A PIECE OF EQUIPMENT
THAT ALLOWS HIM TO TRACK HOW IT
NAVIGATES THIS VIRTUAL FOREST
PROJECTED IN FRONT OF IT.
>> WHAT I HAVE HERE IS A MOTH
THAT'S ATTACHED TO EFFECTIVELY A
JOYSTICK.
SO IF THE MOTH TRIES TO TURN
RIGHT OR TURN LEFT WE'LL MEASURE
IT.
>> Sreenivasan: THE MOTH THINKS
IT'S FLYING.
>> IT THINKS IT'S FLYING.
WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO ASK IS HOW
DOES IT PROCESS INFORMATION AND
ACCOMPLISH TIGHT MANEUVERS IN A
COMPLEX HABITAT?
WITH A TINY BRAIN THEY'RE
ACCOMPLISHING MANEUVERS THAT WE
CAN'T GET ANY AIRCRAFT TO DO.
AS WE LOOK TO VARIOUS DEVICES TO
HELP US GUIDE AIRPLANES AND
AIRCRAFT, HOW COULD YOU BUILD
SYSTEMS THAT COULD ACTUALLY
NAVIGATE IN CLUTTERED
ENVIRONMENTS, NAVIGATE SAFELY?
HOW COULD YOU BUILD A LITTLE
QUAD ROTOR TO MOVE AROUND IN A
FOREST?
>> Sreenivasan: DANIEL'S LAB IS
OFTEN LITERALLY BUZZING.
HIS TEAM OF GRADUATE AND
POSTDOCTORAL STUDENTS RUN A
VARIETY OF EXPERIMENTS AIMED AT
UNDERSTANDING HOW INSECTS
PROCESS INFORMATION AROUND THEM
AND USE THAT INFORMATION TO
CONTROL THEIR FLIGHT.
>> WE KNOW HOW TO MAKE THINGS
FLY, BUT HOW THINGS FLY I THINK
IS A MUCH GRANDER QUESTION.
>> Sreenivasan: ELISCHA SANDERS
IS A NEUROBIOLOGY GRADUATE WHO
IS STUDYING HOW MOTHS NERVOUS
SYSTEM REACT TO EXTERNAL
STIMULI.
SANDERS SAYS WHAT HE AND HIS
COLLEAGUES ARE LEARNING ABOUT
THE MOTH'S NERVOUS SYSTEM
APPLIES TO MUCH MORE.
>> I LIKE TO THINK OF IT KIND OF
AS LEARNING A DIFFERENT
LANGUAGE.
WE KNOW THE WING IS TALKING TO
THE BRAIN TO TALK BACK TO THE
WING SO THAT IT CAN MAINTAIN
FLIGHT, BUT WE DON'T KNOW WHAT
THEY'RE SAYING.
AND MUCH IN THE SAME WAY THAT IT
GOES ON IN THE MOTH, IT GOES ON
IN HUMANS AS WELL.
WE'RE TRYING TO CRACK THAT CODE
OR UNDERSTAND THE LANGUAGE OF
THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, SO THAT WE
CAN, YOU KNOW, BETTER THE
TECHNOLOGIES FOR HUMANITY.
ONE OF THE STUDENTS BUILT A
ROBOTIC INSECT WING CALLED THE
FLAPPER.
>> INSECT WINGS ARE VERY
COMPLEX.
WE CAN USE SIMPLE MODELS IN
ORDER TO UNDERSTAND THE
UNDERLYING PRINCIPLES THAT
GOVERN INSECT FLIGHT.
>> THERE ARE SO MANY THINGS THAT
EVEN FOR THE SMALLEST OF
SIMPLEST INSECTS WE DON'T KNOW
ABOUT.
WE DON'T KNOW HOW THEY SENSE
PRETTY MUCH ANYTHING.
VELOCITY, ORIENTATION.
>> Sreenivasan: WHILE THE
SCIENTISTS HERE ARE FOCUSED ON
ADVANCING BASIC SCIENCE, THEIR
RESEARCH COULD ONE DAY LEAD TO A
FUTURE WITH SMARTER, AND MORE
DRONES, ABOVE US.
A CONCERNING PROSPECT FOR SOME.
THE U.S. AIR FORCE, WHICH IS
PROVIDING UP TO $9 MILLION FOR
DANIELS PROJECT OVER THE NEXT
SIX YEARS, HAS SAID THEIR
PRIMARY GOALS ARE TO DEVELOP
BETTER CONTROL SYSTEMS FOR
DRONES AND MAKE AIRCRAFT MORE
EFFICIENT.
BUT THROUGH ITS OWN RESEARCH
PROGRAM, THE AIR FORCE HAS IN
THE PAST EXPLORED THE USE OF
ROBOTS THAT MIMIC INSECTS AND
BIRDS FOR SURVEILLANCE AND
TARGETING.
WHILE THE AIR FORCE IS NOT
CURRENTLY PURSUING THE
DEVELOPMENT OF THOSE ROBOTS,
SIMILAR TECHNOLOGY COULD
EVENTUALLY ONE DAY PLAY A ROLE
IN THE BATTLEFIELD.
TOM DANIEL, HAS NOT BEEN
INVOLVED WITH THE MILITARY'S
PROGRAM.
BUT HE ACKNOWLEDGES THE
TECHNOLOGY THAT MAY STEM FROM
HIS TEAM'S RESEARCH WILL HAVE A
VARIETY OF USES.
>> JUST LIKE ANY TECHNOLOGY,
THERE ARE USES THAT ARE FOR MORE
OFFENSIVE, THERE ARE USES FOR
DEFENSIVE, AND THERE ARE USES
FOR EXPLORATION.
SO YOU CAN IMAGINE A SCENARIO OF
AN EARTHQUAKE IN A BUILDING
COMPLETELY MOSTLY DESTROYED.
AND YOU CAN'T GET ANY NORMAL
ROBOTIC SYSTEM OR ANY HUMAN IN
THERE.
HOW CAN YOU BUILD SOMETHING THAT
IS CAPABLE OF LOOKING FOR
SURVIVORS, OKINLOG FOR SIGHTS OF
NGERDA?
SO I LOOK AT TECHNOLOGY
GENERALLYS TH AEY'RE GREAT USES,
THEY'RE SOCIALLY WONDERFUL USES
AND THERE ARE SOME MORE
TECHNICALLY CHALLENGING USES.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
IN SEATTLE, WASHINGTON.
>> Woodruff: EARLIER THIS MONTH,
18 MIDDLE AND HIGH SCHOOL
STUDENTS FROM AROUND THE COUNTRY
TRAVELED HERE TO THE NEWSHOUR
FOR THE INAUGURAL STUDENT
REPORTING LABS ACADEMY.
AS PART OF THEIR TRAINING,
STUDENTS PROFILED A PARKOUR
ARTIST WHO LEARNS HOW TO
OVERCOME LIFE'S OBSTACLES BY
RUNNING AND LEAPING THROUGH
WASHINGTON D.C.'S CONCRETE
JUNGLE.
OUR STORY WAS PRODUCED BY EIGHTH
GRADERS FROM PHILIPS ACADEMY IN
NEWARK, NEW JERSEY, AND A 2015
GRADUATE OF ROYAL OAK HIGH
SCHOOL IN MICHIGAN.
>> I STARTED PARKOUR IN MIDDLE
SCHOOL AND IT WAS BECAUSE I WAS
INTRODUCED TO PARKOUR THROUGH A
NEWS ARTICLE.
HOWEVER, I HAD ALWAYS BEEN
SOMEBODY WHO MOVED AROUND AND
JUMPED AND CLIMBED ON THINGS, SO
I FELL INTO IT REALLY NATURALLY.
BASICALLY, AFTER I HEARD ABOUT
IT I WAS JUST LIKE, "OH, GREAT,
THIS HAS A NAME."
PARKOUR IS A TRAINING METHOD
DESIGNED TO HELP SOMEBODY BECOME
MORE USEFUL IN THEIR EVERYDAY
ENVIRONMENT.
IT WAS NEVER DESIGNED TO BE A
DAREDEVIL SPORT, EXTREME SPORT
OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
I'D SAY THE MAJORITY OF WHAT
PARKOUR PRACTITIONERS DO IS THEY
ONLY PRACTICE SAFE PROGRESSIONS,
THEY BUILD THEIR BODIES UP, THEY
MAKE SURE THEY'RE STRONG AND
SAFE BEFORE THEY GO OUT AND TRY
ANYTHING AND THEY NEVER TRY
ANYTHING THAT'S ABOVE THEIR
LIMIT.
IF THERE'S SOMETHING YOU HAVE TO
SECOND GUESS, YOU DON'T TRY IT.
YOU DON'T FORCE YOURSELF TO DO
IT.
>> I WOULD SAY THE PARKOUR AND
FREERUNNING COMMUNITY IS FILLED
WITH PEOPLE WHO ARE MORE LIKELY
TO BE LEARNERS AND EXPLORERS--
THAT TYPE OF PERSONALITY.
MY PHILOSOPHY BEHIND PARKOUR IS
JUST TO BE USEFUL AND TO
OVERCOME OBSTACLES IN YOUR LIFE
AND PHYSICALLY AND USING THAT
ENERGY, NOT ONLY MOVING FORWARD
BUT MOVING IN ALL DIRECTIONS.
I'VE LEARNED A LOT THROUGH
PARKOUR, JUST BECAUSE THE WANT
AND THE NEED TO DO PARKOUR DROVE
ME TO LEARN THESE THINGS SO I
COULD PRACTICE WHAT I LOVE.
>> Woodruff: YOU WON'T FIND ME
TRYING THAT.
BUT CONGRATULATIONS TO ALL THE
STUDENTS PARTICIPATING.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW: A SCREAM IS THE FIRST SOUND
MOST HUMANS MAKE.
SO WHAT IS ABOUT THAT NOISE THAT
MAKES OUR SK CRAINWL?
A NEW STUDY HELPS EXPLAIN THE
UNIQUE PROPERTIES OF THE BLOOD-
CURDLING SOUND.
READ ABOUT THAT ON OUR HOME
PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE: pbs.org/newshour.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM OUR PBS
COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
WASHINGTON WEEK, WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: UNPACKING THE
HISTORIC NUCLEAR DEAL WITH IERP.
SO MANY QUESTIONS -- WILL IT
HOLD?
WHAT DID WE GAIN?
WHAT DID WE GIVE UP?
CAN THE PRESIDENT WIN THE BATTLE
HE'S DECIDED TO WAGE FOR
CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL?
PLUS WE'LL SHOW YOU HOW
POLITICAL MONEY IS SHAPING YOUR
CHOICES FOR THE 2016
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN.
THAT'S LATER TONIGHT ON
"WASHINGTON WEEK."
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND SATURDAY: MILLIONS IN
THE STRUGGLING EAST AFRICAN
NATION OF SOMALIA RELY ON MONEY
SENT FROM RELATIVES IN THE
UNITED STATES.
BUT NOW, STRICT FINANCIAL RULES
THREATEN TO CUT-OFF THEIR
LIFELINE.
>> ACCORDING TO COMMUNITY
LEADERS IN MINNEAPOLIS/ST. PAUL,
80% OF SOMALIAN-AMERICANS SEND
MONEY BACK TO EAST AFRICA.
40% OF SOMALIA'S POPULATION
RELIES ON THE DOLLARS KNOWN AS
REMITTENSES TO SURVIVE.
BUT NOW THE $215 MILLION THAT
FLOW FROM THE SOMALI DIAS PRAY
IN THE U.S. EACH YEAR MAY BE IN
JEOPARDY.
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT IS
INCREASINGLY CONCERN SOMEDE OF
THOSE REMITTENSES ARE GOING TO
TERROR GROUPS.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S TOMORROW
NIGHT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY: WITH A LOOK AT THE
RISING GUN VIOLENCE OF CHICAGO--
A WEEKEND ON THAT CITY'S HOT
DEADLY STREETS.
WE HOPE YOU TUNE IN FOR EXCITING
NEW CHANGES HERE ON THE
"NewsHour".
YOU WILL HAVE TO WAIT TILL
MONDAY TO SEE WHAT I MEAN.
DEADLY STREETS.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.